# 7.4 - User Enum in Kerberos

## User Enumeration

User Enumeration occurs when it is possible to determine valid usernames on a system implementing an authentication mechanism.

Authentication Request (username, password) -> Authenticator

This happens when the system exhibits different behaviors depending on whether a username exists in the underlying data store or not.

Typical scenarios allowing user enumeration:

*   Different error messages

    username does not exist -> Invalid username | username does exist --> Invalid password \`----
*   Timing differences

    username does not exist -> less processing --> faster response | username does exist --> more processing -> slower response

User Enumeration\` can be leveraged by attackers to gather information about a system's authentication process. By identifying valid usernames, an attacker can conduct further exploitation attempts.

For example, `AS-REP` roasting is a Kerberos attack requiring knowledge of a valid username. If `pre-authentication` is disabled for that user, the attacker can obtain an AS-REP message encrypted with the user's long-term key, opening up the possibility of offline password cracking.

## User Enum in Kerberos

Kerberos allows user enumeration due to the following behaviors:

* If pre-authentication is disabled for a user, submitting a valid username triggers the KDC to respond with a valid `AS-REP` message.
* If pre-authentication is enabled, the KDC's responses differ based on username existence:
  * `KRB5KDC_ERR_PREAUTH_REQUIRED`
    * If pre-authentication is required and the user exists
  * `KRB5KDC_ERR_C_PRINCIPAL_UNKNOWN`
    * If the user does not exist

To perform such enumeration attacks in practice, various tools can be used:

* [**Kerbrute**](https://github.com/ropnop/kerbrute): a tool to quickly bruteforce and enumerate valid Active Directory accounts via Kerberos Pre-Authentication.
* [**Rubeus**](https://github.com/GhostPack/Rubeus): a C# toolset for raw Kerberos interaction and abuses.
* impacket/GetNPUsers.py: this script attempts to list and retrieve TGTs for users with `Do not require Kerberos preauthentication` enabled (UF\_DONT\_REQUIRE\_PREAUTH).

***

## A Practical Example

The following PowerShell script creates 5 random users selected from a pool of 100.

```bash
$users = 1..100 | ForEach-Object { "user$_" }
$iterations = 5
for ($i = 0; $i -lt $iterations; $i++) {
$randomUser = $users | Get-Random

$samAccountName = $randomUser
$userPrincipalName = "$randomUser@hexdump.lab"
$givenName = "User"
$surname = $randomUser
$password = ConvertTo-SecureString "Password123!" -AsPlainText -Force

New-ADUser -SamAccountName $samAccountName -UserPrincipalName $userPrincipalName -GivenName $givenName -Surname $surname -Name $randomUser -AccountPassword $password -Enabled $true -PassThru
}
```

To enumerate them, first generate the user list:

```bash
touch users.txt

for i in {1..100}; do
echo "user$i" >> users.txt
done
```

To **enumerate** usernames, use the `userenum` module:\
`kerbrute userenum -d dev-angelist.lab --dc corp-dc.dev-angelist.lab users.txt`\
To **delete** the created users:

```powershell
$usersToDelete = @("user3", "user50", "user70", "user81", "user85")
foreach ($user in $usersToDelete) {
Remove-ADUser -Identity $user -Confirm:$false
}
```

***

## Possible Remediations

To reduce the risk of user enumeration, enforce account lockout policies:

* **Account lockout threshold**
  * Defines the number of failed logins before an account is locked.
* **Account lockout duration**
  * Defines the duration before an account automatically unlocks.
* **Reset account lockout counter after**
  * Defines how long after a failed attempt the counter resets.

## Other Resources

* [Kerberos User Enumeration HexDump YT](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NylQKulUe9M)
